Title: Revisiting My GTD Process
Date: 2017-09-23 21:15
Author: yaniv
Category: Uncategorized
Slug:  
Status: draft

NOTE: I moved the content bellow to Scrivener to try it out, and see if
I prefer managing my blog posts there. (09/23/2017)

Apps that I consider:
=====================

-   2do - that's what I currently use, though less and less
-   FoldingText\\Taskpaper 3 - I use it for simple markdown and todos,
    fits well with my current simple daily task management routine.
-   Trello
-   Omnifocus
-   Things 3

My user flows
=============

-   Every night, I want to set my goals and tasks for
    tomorrow.^[1](#fn-1152-fn785){.jetpack-footnote}^
-   \[Ideally\] Every Sunday I set goals and higher level
    tasks\\projects for the coming week.
-   I add tasks on the fly and sort them up later.
-   When I’m ready to take on a task, I want the app to show me
    relevant todos. Right now I kind a need to know what I want to do
    next and then search for it in my task list. That beat the purpose,
    because I go to the task list in order to see what I’m having open
    rather than pallets but I’m going to get so check there

What do I look for in a todo app?
=================================

-   I want to be able to set different perspectives. At least, I want to
    have personal and work sections.
-   When focusing on one perspective, I want all the functionality,
    scoped to that perspective.
    -   For example, in Things 3, I can define areas, such as Work
        and Family. But then I want to focus on the Today view for Work.
        I don't see how I can do it.
-   I need a quick entry mode
-   I want to add updates to tasks
-   I want to send emails to inbox
-   I want a view that shows me all available tasks, from whichever
    area, project or context
-   I want to know when a certain task was completed
-   I want to be able to switch to different views easily
-   I want to see my calendar meetings

omnifocus
=========

I use the trail version for desktop and the viewer for iPhone.

I like that the app is minimal and easy on the eyes. Though that's also
a downside - it feels that I don't have control on where tasks are
ending up. I address a task to a project, and tried to get to that task,
with no success. it vanished. I create that same task again and again
and it still didn't show. When I added the same task with a "today"
deadline though it did show in the project view.

Some time later I played with the view option while still in that
project, and changed to "All". Suddenly all the lost duplicates of the
same task showed.

Again, being able to control what shows, and have stuff hidden until
it's relevant is a powerful feature that might keep me focused on what's
important. I still don't have enough trust, though, that the logic to
show and hide a task is accurate enough. and so I feel that I'm missing
or loosing stuff.

I might change that view as I use OF focus some more and get used to the
way it "behave".

<div class="footnotes">

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  <div id="fn-1152-fn785">

    </div>

    This is a test [↩](#fnref-1152-fn785)

</div>
