Title: Apple Watch - 6 Months Later. Not That Great.
Date: 2016-01-29 00:00
Author: yaniv
Category: geeking
Tags: apple-watch
Slug: apple-watch-6-months-later-not-that-great
Status: published

When I shared my [first impression on the
Watch](http://prodissues.com/2015/06/the-watch-first-impressio.html), it
was all hail of fanfare. I had nothing bad to say about it, and even if
I had, I ignored or minimized it.

Six months of daily use later, and I become annoyed with it. If it
wasn't too big of a statement, I would have gone back to my Polar
RS-100.

<!--more-->

Before I go on, I need to put things into perspective. I've just went
back to that first impression post that I wrote. Turns out I wasn't
blind to its limitations, and I didn't expect it to be much more than a
beautifully designed, simple watch.

I still don't. I *do* use it for the most basic functions, and rarely
switch from the main screen. Taking a glance at the time and my next
meeting, getting a feel of the temperature outside, and making sure that
I have my alarm set, are really my main functions I use it for.

I have almost no 3rd party app installed on it, other than Duo, which
makes VPN authentication a bit easier. I use the Workout app when I run,
and the navigation's haptic signals when I drive out of the city - it
*does* help me with keeping my eyes on the road.

Those uses are illustrated in the screenshots bellow:


![the-watch-uses.png](http://media.prodissues.com.s3.amazonaws.com/images/2016/01/the-watch-uses.png)

<span class="figure-number">Figure 1:</span> Those screenshots capture
99% of what I use the Watch for


And that's not what getting my upset, and leading me to write this.

What bothers me is that the Watch fails at being a simple watch. Take
charging for example - I need to do it every night. "You stupid Apple
fanboy, didn't you read the spec before you bought it?". I did. I knew
about it, and yet I've discounted it. I thought it will be as simple as
charging my iPhone. I was wrong - it isn't. Having to take off your
watch, every night, is like a Chinese torture - it impinges you one drop
at a time, until you can't stand it anymore.

As I'm writing this, I'm on vacation. I'm wearing the Watch, but it's
dead. I brought its charger with me, yet I'm too lazy to connect it to
the outlet, take off my watch and connect it to the charger. You know
what - no, it's not because I'm lazy. It's because I don't suppose to
take off my watch every night and charge it!

Another example - the sport band, which doesn't make it easier to take
the Watch off and put it back on. It's a clumsy mechanism that causes me
to drop the Watch on the floor too often, when trying to fasten it on my
hand. And I'm not going to spend $149 on a [Leather
Loop](http://www.apple.com/shop/product/MLHL2/42mm-midnight-blue-leather-loop-medium)
that suppose to do better job at that.

It might have been the [post
Apple-ohilic](http://prodissues.com/2015/12/i-can-live-without-a-mac.html)
of me who wrote this, but now that I let it go, I can go back to be the
acquiescence user that I am. I'll go out of bed to set up the charger,
and keep telling myself it's the best watch ever designed...
