Title: Comics And How Did I Get There
Date: 2017-01-21 22:05
Author: yaniv
Category: design
Tags: comics, illustrator, inkscape, sketch
Slug: bread-crumbs-of-the-learning-rabbit-hole
Status: published

[How to Use Comics to Communicate
Ideas](http://rosenfeldmedia.com/books/see-what-i-mean/) - now wait. How
did I get here...?

Too often will I find myself somewhere, reading something that is
completely unrelated to what I do or like doing. I will try to retract
the steps that led me to that spot, usually with no successes. I'm at
the same situation now, but am determined to go back and log the
breadcrumbs of exploration that led me to, of all things, comics. I
never read comics, and weren't interested in it. And now I'm about to
buy a book teaching how to use it to communicate ideas. So here's how I
got here.

About a month ago, I started to work on this [Messenger
App](https://www.messenger.com/t/1800370993514871). Initially, I did the
development work. I used python and flsk to build a server that acted as
the back-end of the service. Later, a friend joined me. He is a much
more experienced developer, and over time became the lead developer in
the project. I did more of the product work - spec'ing and prioritizing
as well as building the front-end of the bot, using
[Chatfuel](https://chatfuel.com) as the CMS.

We needed a designer, and thought to hire a freelancer. We also wanted
to experiment with the concept, because we think of it as a way to scale
ourselves cheaply. I used [Guru](https://www.guru.com/) to find
designers.

To hire a designer, a freelancer, I needed examples of the design work
and styles that I'm looking for. And so I started to create them.

I started with [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org). In addition, I
downloaded Sketch and illustrator for a trial period. The latter two
didn't stick at the beginning, and since I learned to use Inkscape
quickly, I didn't need them.

I learned Inkscape mainly through YouTube. I wasn't familiar not only
with the app, but also illustration and vector graphic. I never really
understood bezier, or how to use it. But now I started to, and realized
the potential of vector graphics.

As I learned more, I was drowning more and more into the design world. I
started to think colors and see shapes. I made more and more
illustrations of cloth items. ([here
are](http://prodissues.com/2016/12/some-illustration-fun.html) few
examples.)

The designers I hired on Guru didn't work out. One resigned after I
hired her, because she didn't feel comfortable with material design. The
other submitted a horrible first draft, and I stopped the project short.
And since I started to have a lot of fun creating the illustrations
myself, I decided to keep doing it and complete the design work for v1
of the product.

I produced tens of items, and while doing so started to develop a design
language for the app. (I was inspired by [this
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygk_pIBrMZA&list=FL9kscMXqi9gccvZkeWyKRJg&index=1&t=922s).)

Once I had the items, I moved to compose the outfits for the different
genders and weather conditions. While Inkscape is great, it's not as
good when it comes to layout design. And so I tried Sketch and
Illustrator again.

At that point I already made a lot of progress learning vector design,
and started to get comfortable with the design workflow. And while I
still didn't get how to use Illustrator, working with Sketch was fun and
flawless. In less than two days I completed the full sets of outfits.

I got totally excited about design, and felt that I can actually do it
in a more serious way. And it that's the case, then I must learn Adobe
Illustrator, the gold standard for graphic design.

I started to read a ton of blog posts and tutorial. I watched many
YouTube videos. And I started to see the power of Illustrator, and the
endless capabilities it allows. Just two examples for features I wished
for when working with Inkscape:

-   Illustrating fur. [Here's a
    video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LNhxVWBnDsY) of how to do it
    in Illustrator.
-   Color refactoring - I needed to design for both boys and girls.
    Since the focus at the initial version was on newborns, all I needed
    to do, in most cases, was to simply change the color scheme of an
    item, to make is "girlish" or "boyish". It took about 30 minutes in
    Inkscape, manually changing the colors. In illustrator, there's a
    color refactoring function, that lets me create as many colors from
    the same item in seconds.

So Illustrator rocks. I need to learn it, and maybe I should do it in a
structured course, rather than reading sporadic tutorial. A designer
friend recommended Lynda, but I eventually signed up to 5 classes in
Udemy (they had the January promotion, when all classes were only 10\$
each, so I added to my cart whatever had illustrator in the title...).

I started with [Adobe Illustrator CC Tutorial - Training Taught By Experts](https://www.udemy.com/adobe-illustrator-cc-tutorial/learn/v4/content).
A 12 hours course, that spans across 132 episodes. I completed it in less than a week. I continued to [Learn to draw fashion with Adobe Illustrator CC - Beginners](https://www.udemy.com/learn-to-draw-fashion-with-adobe-illustrator-cc-beginners/learn/v4/content)[^1].

While taking the courses, and getting deeper into Illustrator, I started
to feel strongly about creating, painting and making illustrations. I
bought an [Intous Pro
tablet](http://www.wacom.com/en-es/products/pen-tablets/intuos-pro),
because I thought it will open me to digital art, and make the design
process more efficient and much more enjoyable. I was right, and not
only that, but using the Intous, I got even more eager to create. I
wanted to replicate as much as possible the the physical sensation of
sketching on paper.

And that's were I started to contemplate on buying an iPad pro with a
pencil... It took one day since I started playing with that idea till
when I got one... a classic impulsive buy (though I bought a used one.)

The experience with the iPad, though I have it for less than a week, is
amazing. I carry it with me everywhere, and find myself sketching when
ever I have few minutes, such as when sitting in a cafe for lunch. I use
it to also take notes, and can see how it replaces my pen and notebook
that I love so much.

And so, as I start to express myself visually, I want to, well, learn
how to do it better. I'm writing a spec for one of the projects I'm
working on at Outbrain, and thought that a storyboard that illustrates
user stories might be a good way to convey my thoughts and the user
flows I had in mind. And so I started to read about using storyboards
for product design. [One of the articles I
read](https://uxmag.com/articles/storyboarding-in-the-software-design-process)
led me to this book. And that's were I paused, and started to write this
post.

I was never interested in comics, let alone creating them. But for some
reason, I have a strong feeling that that's going to change very soon...

Can't wait for the next learning adventure.


[^1]: I have 3 more in the queue: [Learn to draw fashion with Adobe Illustrator CC Intermediate](https://www.udemy.com/learn-to-draw-fashion-with-adobe-illustrator-cc-intermediate/learn/v4/), [Icon Design - Material Design Mastered in Illustrator](https://www.udemy.com/icondesign/learn/v4/) and [Logo Design in Illustrator - for Beginners &
Beyond](https://www.udemy.com/logodesign/learn/v4/).