Title: On Starting A Blog
Date: 2016-01-27 16:20
Author: yaniv
Category: blogging
Slug: on-starting-a-blog
Status: published

My experience with starting a blog reminds me that of becoming a parent.

<!--more-->

For years the idea of having a child was something my wife and I
repressed. We knew we will eventually have one (or two), but never spoke
about it. When time started to press, and we had to start planning for
it, we tried to figure the exact day to go about it. "Next week is too
soon, I'm busy at work", "maybe after the holidays, or the month after?"
We felt as if getting pregnant means that the baby will arrive the day
after. Well, it isn't. It takes, like, 9 months or so.

During those long months we did a lot of planning; we bought stuff for
the baby, rearrange the house and set up a room for her. We slowly
turned into parents. And somewhere during the last trimester I started
to have strong craving for that baby to come already.

Now what does it have to do with starting a blog? For years you might
have thought about starting one. At a certain point you got over
yourself and decided to actually create one. But making that decision is
only the first step. Actually launching it is another. And that you
postponed as much as possible. You hatch on couple of posts you intend
to publish; you edit them over and over, afraid of making even a single
error. You're terrified that someone, out of the millions of readers,
who wait to read whatever you're about to post, won't like what you
wrote.

But then, when you finally plunge yourself into the water and post
something, you notice that no one came. You post again, and still no one
cares.

Months go by and you start realizing that you're writing to yourself.
This realization, though is liberating. It leads you to become more
comfortable, to share more and express yourself better. After all,
you're your only reader.

If you haven't given up yet, and you keep posting, your writing and way
of communicating your thoughts and ideas will improve. And as that
happens you'll start craving for audience, for people to read what you
share. Not too long after that, almost magically, readers do start
coming. It turned out that your posts made their ways across the
internet, and found interested readers. They show on search results,
picked up by someone, or referred to by a fellow blogger. Your site is
coming to life.

Starting a blog, just like getting pregnant, is only the beginning of a
long, long, process. It takes months for it to evolve and attract
readers. So don't worry about that exact moment in time when you'll
publish your first post, and don't think too much about that first post.
Just do it.
